>> Mike North: I hope you had fun
refactoring the plain CSS for
this range selector, trying to get it,
not necessarily as small as possible,
but trying to bring some of the benefits
we get from sass into it so
that it's as maintainable and
as understandable and
concise as we can get it.
So I'm starting out here with all of
this text selected on the right side.
This is the full CSS to style
range components in all browsers.
You may or may not have started
with this already in your file, but
we're just gonna paste it in here so that
we've got the two imports at the top and
then all of that CSS Coming down after
it and then we can put this away.
Looks like I've got my old
solution running there,
we're just going to fire
the new one up with run-e
range, and it's telling us that on
localhost:3000, we are good to go.
And there it is.
A nicely styled range component.
Now if we look through this,
we can immediately see that first of all,
all of our rules,
everything here is scoped to range.
So what we can do is replace this.
I'm just gonna do a quick find and
replace using an ampersand
here as what I'm replacing it with and
I'll just undo it in this one case.
And bring all of these other rules into
the scope of the range selector here.
It looks like it can't
auto format that's fine.
All right, let me just fix my.
So we know what we're looking at and we
can see that nothing has changed here, I'm
just gonna make sure my works It in fact
does deliberately broken and fixed again.
So now I am going to start
looking through here for
repeated pieces of code and
thanks for anime breaking my syntax
highlighting that has caught my eye as
a value that is repeated a few times.
Let me get rid of this terminal
we do not need it any more.
And looking a little bit closer
if we collapse this here.
We can see that largely
these blocks are the same.
In fact,
it appears there exactly the same.
So this tells me that probably
want a Mixins or some SAAS.
We use of some sort here.
Just looking through,
this does not look like it's the same.
See all these transparent things here.
All right.
So the first thing we can do is
go to our mixin sections here.
I've got one here called the range thumb,
that might have been
the little hint Hint here.
Let's have a range-track first,
because that's this thing, range-track.
So we'll create that.
>> Mike North: And
this is just gonna take in,
>> Mike North: A block
>> Mike North: Something that
looks like this.
>> Mike North: Here's the other one.
I'm not really interested in the content
here cuz I'm going to do this.
>> Mike North: I'm not interested in
the declarations inside these blocks.
Then what I can do is,
wondering what my syntax highlighting
is telling me something is wrong.
It is usual for highlighting to get
a little funky around the main,
I'm sorry vendor specific
pseudo selectors and
tags because they are not part
of the official CSS spec.
So if you've built something that plays
by the rules, sorry to break your hearts.
Browsers don't always play by the rules.
WebKit, in this case, is not.
And then now we can import range track and
pass in this whole chunk of style here.
>> Mike North: Getting rid of
the specific Mozilla and WebKit stuff.
We have to have parentheses here.
Sorry it's include that's my bad.
Include and where we should be back
to normal let's what's on here.
Let me save this make sure that
everything is up to date.
There it is.
Okay, something's not quite right yet.
Let me look at the output CSS and
see what's wrong.
So, there's our track.
That looks pretty similar to me.
>> Mike North: Let me just check for
an error of some sort.
Refresh.
So we've lost our button some how.
[SOUND] I'm just going
to go back, save.
Okay.
Here.
>> Mike North: Break this stuff out.
>> Mike North: I think I
know what the problem was.
I think I deleted a chunk I
wasn't supposed to delete.
So here is the other one to delete.
Save, alright, and
were exactly where we were.
So effectively we've taken the concept of
there being two bender specific prefixes
for this track, and we've moved it out
into a mix in that is using this content
thing twice, and our output CSS is
going to get the benefit of that.
We can set the width to 100,
that I would typically leave alone here.
Let's see, most range track, this looks
very similar to what we had in here.
I wonder.
I thought I had deleted that, I'm sorry
I'm looking at my, css, how to do that.
So, the next thing here is that we have
a color that's used over and over again.
This 307, 367 is here to be
used in a couple of places and
we can consider this to be like
dark blue and a right blue.
So, we can break those into variables And
we're actually not using any of these.
>> Mike North: Dark blue is going to be,
>> Mike North: This 307.
>> Mike North: And
then the light blue, sorry And
the light blue is going to be this other
shade that's a little bit brighter.
Right.
And now we would wanna go through and
just replace this with light blue and
then replace this one
>> Mike North: With darkblue.
>> Mike North: Save, and
everything continues to look as it should.
So let me get rid of this
in my terminal again.
>> Mike North: So this box shadow
is popping up in a couple places.
One pixel three times, and
again here,
that's the exact same box shadow.
So we can refactor that into a variable
and just call it rain shadow.
>> Mike North: And
grab this whole value here.
>> Mike North: Like that,
and then go here.
Do a replace.
>> Mike North: Okay,
just scan it for other stuff.
>> Mike North: The thumbs
are probably very similar.
So there is range_shadow,
36 pixel height, 16 pixel width,
this is starting to look very Interesting
like it is rather make sense so
we can start to refractor
this out as well.
The content,
>> Mike North: And
then the other one we'll
probably grab is web kit.
>> Mike North: Let's see.
Solid, looks like Microsoft
is playing nice with web
standards here and
mirroring what Mozilla is doing.
I'm just eyeballing it here,
keeping an eye on the right side
to see if things start to diverge.
Always good to start with
something that works.
And that gives you a chance to sort
of iterate and know if it breaks.
>> Mike North: So range-thumb, and
we'll pass in those as arguments.
So now we can get rid of this.
>> Mike North: This border is used twice.
Twice would not necessarily meet
my threshold for re-factoring out.
Here's a third time.
We could do that, so
range Small border and grab that.
>> Mike North: Room and
now we can go to a place that record.
It's just this repeating pattern over and
over.
>> Mike North: Refactor > Save,
make sure that everything keeps working
the way it's supposed to work, and so on.
The slider thumb, I'm just gonna compare
that to the mixin that we have here.
>> Mike North: Sorry,
the mixin that we're using elsewhere.
It doesn't quite look the same.
Yeah, so we could keep following this,
we don't have to and I don't want
to take too much time to go on.
I saw someone that got it
down to Here's another one.
This is another thumb here.
I'll bother to take this one out but
this qn iterative process that
we can go through for a while.
So we've called this like thumb two or
something and this is gonna be
the web kit and Microsoft flavor.
Ms thumb And the other one was up
here we'll get slider thumb.
Does look very similar.
Include range thumb two and use that and
then we can get rid of This down here.
>> Mike North: This right here, dark blue,
light blue, oop, we messed something up.
We messed,
>> Mike North: Yeah,
move that last one didn't work.
So did anybody like from seeing what
I have done so far anyone have other
tips that they did we can certainly
start refactoring variables out.
But is there anything are you able to like
grab 3 or 4 or 5 instances something and
bring it in to a variable
>> Mike North: So
I'll provide a couple different
examples of this online.
Oops, sorry.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Mike North: I zoomed in somehow.
Thanks electron.
But it is typically an iterative
process that involves
Kind of did this refactoring and
breaking it out into mixins,
trying to get away from vendor
prefixes as much as you can,
especially when it comes to pseudo
elements and things like that.
I hope you got to see the sort
of thresholds that I had for
breaking things out into variables.
Like I didn't,
this is a color this is used, but
I don't really see it used elsewhere.
So that I might leave as
a color literal in there.
I mean if we were planning for large scale
development maybe we would break that out,
and if the anticipation was that
this is a foundation we'll build on.
But just like Abstracting
too early in code is
add on necessary complexity,
same goes with SAAS.
I should.
>> Speaker 2: Like auto pre-fixer?
>> Mike North: So, yes there's thing
called auto pre-fixer that will add
specific prefixes to things like
boarder radiance and stuff like that.
For what we're doing specifically here,
these are like, this is private
component DOM that we're styling.
And so the auto prefixer wouldn't
necessarily help us quite as much here.
Yeah.
All right so
I'm gonna call this my solution.
It's not dramatically better than
what we started with, but it is.
You can see that we got some of the
mysterious stuff sort of factored out and
we identified things that were shared and
so on.
And for a complete solution to this,
you would want to definitely have
a Firefox that you potentially check.
We're dealing across different browsers
here, so, browser stack might be
a good thing to use where you can see what
this looks like in a old version of IE and
some of these things you
even involve SSH tunneling.
Where you can point to local host
using the little browser stack UI and
they'll be able to Access your local host
and don't show what's on your screen.
So, I will commit this and there was
no like finish line to the solution,
this is sort of a process that we go
through and it's just fun if we can get.
So, if you can do better like may be
open up a PR into this branch and
I would be happy to recognize those things
as further iterations to this solution.